---
layout: post
title: "The special day or it is just a day"
date: 2023-12-31
description: How should we treat the last day of the year
tags: Reflection
categories: Life
giscus_comments: true

---

Speaking about the last day or the first day of the year, we generally have high expectation about it and we tend to do something different. I sometimes feel pressure about this and I actually feel happier during the normal days. Why?

1. I like routine. Special day means special behavior/meal/gathering, which sometimes doesn't fit to my preference.
2. Lots of waste. People tend to order/eat/spend a lot more during the special days.
3. A decent day becomes not that great. If I go to a normal hiking trail, I will feel happy during a normal day. But for the last day of the year, we tend to have a special trail and feel less satisfactory about the normal good things happening around us.
4. Lots of reflection and plans. Let's be honest, we normally cannot predict year-long behavior and cannot remember exactly what has happened 6 months ago. And doing them in such busy ~2 days is also unrealistic.
5. Positive Bias. We tend to share good wish and present positive experience in the end the year. For someone with a bad year, that could make him/her feel worse through comparison. We probably should be more honest about ourselves and our year.


So, I am suggesting the following:
1. Respect the routine of others. At least let us sleep well, eat comfortably and have time to be alone.
2. Only buy/eat/use what we need. About gift, buy something we have high (>90%) confidence that the receiver will like and use, otherwise, just donate the money to [effective charity](https://www.givingwhatwecan.org/best-charities-to-donate-to-2023).
3. Appreciate what we already have and are experiencing.
4. Reflect and plan more often, don't just do it in the 2 special days.
5. Be honest to ourselve and be compassionate about others.

No matter how, still, Happy New Year :D